# NLP-sentiment-tracker
Python code to track and analyse headlines and media pieces to track sentiments in the market to indicate towards higher potential returning areas and stocks.
problems - FINbert has a problem understanding some lamgauge. Example, it rated a strong buy for the quote "WWDC keynote unlikely to be positive catalyst for APPLE stock" giving it a score of 19.88/20 as a strong buy even though in reality it has a negative connotation. 2. the api key only gets 100 used per day, every time the api key is used, it uses five of these uses for each run, one for each ticker. so its limited to 20x per day or the api key stops woprking and the code only runs headlines from yahoo finance only.
Takes headlines from YahooFinance and newsapi to generate a combined average on selected tickers headlines to provide a buy/sell/hold judgement with a score /20 of signal strength
Again, another acceptable problem is the load time for the response. due to processing speeds of the language analysis model, it takes ~20 seconds to load the response. however this is an acceptable trade off due to the nature of the model being used for daily/weekly analysis, not by the second. 
The given results can also be misleading and over aggresive as the tracker is over-indexing on positive headlines without weighing the financial concerns. Hence this should be taken into account if we cannot find a solution.
Following this on the 6/07 I got the API to create a summary of average scores for all slected tickers and did the same with claude with an aim of comparing the two, Claudes average scores being the target for the API to match. the results were as follows. AAPL was overvalued by +1.65, MSFT undervalued by -6.57, GOOGL undervalued by -6, TSLA undervlued by -3.18, AMZN overvlued by +5. On average this created an average percentage difference of 31.8%. Currently warranting the API as unuseable.